# Waste-a-Weigh

## Overview of ideation
This is a project that was initiated in the spring of 2017 as a class project provided by the DePuis Group of Chicago, IL.
I and three others were tasked to reduce food waste generated by home-owners via an in-home system of any sort. Presented as a white space project, we were given ten weeks to produce an idea that would accomplish this goal, and after such time, our decision on how to approach the problem was by what we call the Waste-a-Weigh. Full documentation of our research and rationale for our design decision may be found within our [final report](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B6QiNyCJrIlYZENpYW1YMFUxNkU/view?usp=sharing).

Inspired by FitBit, we hope to create a physical apparatus that is able to hold and separate two trash cans - one for food waste and the other for all other forms of matter, including food containers, non-food related trash, and the like. The trash can containing food waste will be housed over a bluetooth scale and the scale will record the weight of the trash can after meals and send that data over to a cellular device through a mobile application. This mobile application will manipulate and visualize the data to help detail the amount of food waste that is being thrown out by home-owners. Through this, we hope to accompish relaying the amount of food wasted and additionally provide methods of reducing food waste.

## The Application Itself
A visualization of what I hope the app would look like in the end may be found [here](https://marvelapp.com/2a2781g/screen/28746937). Due to the limitations of our ten-week class, we were unable to learn Android/iOS mobile application development and create a fully-operating prototype. As a result, we created a mapping via Marvel in order to relay to our client what the application hopes to do as a method of detailing our vision. As of late November of 2017, I decided to continue this project individually in order to bring it to life.

### Home Page
The application, when finished, should be able to receive information about the weight of the food waste and relay that to the phone. From here, it should be able to manipulate the data in multiple ways. It should be able to record the amount of waste for the day and save that data to create representations of the amount of waste from the past week and month. This hopes to be the general hub and link to other pages within the app.

### Tips
This page aims to provide the user methods of reducing food waste. It will house multiple tips, each of which may be clicked on to gather more information about it.

### Trophies
Trophies (Achievements in the code), are milestones for users to reach to help create goals for the users and make the experience more "fun." The stars are grayed out until accomplished, and when completed, the star will turn green. 

### Waste Loss Plan
The waste loss plan is based on the idea of a weight loss plan. It hopes to provide week-by-week goals for the user to achieve in order to gradually decrease the amount of waste created by the user.

### Settings
The settings page is there to provide user control over both the scale and the application itself. The items listed are the ideas for settings to include at the moment.

### Statistics
The statistics page aims to be the brunt of the visualization of the waste amounts. By collecting data from the scale, this page should relay how much waste the user is creating. Through research, we found that a lot of people tend to not care about food waste partially because they were unable to feel the weight of the issue - they were not able to feel the negative effects of throwing away the food. This page aims to put the food waste in perspective to help alleviate this issue. 

## Current Capabilities 
This application is still a large work in progress. It maintains a minimum amount of functionality for being an application but is an application nonetheless. It is able to do the following:
- Utilize buttons to go to other activities
- Enable/disable bluetooth
- Become discoverable under bluetooth for 300 seconds
- Connect to other bluetooth devices

